spatialmedia/README.md, before:

# <a href="https://github.com/google/spatial-media/archive/master.zip" download>master.zip</a>
This is a simple python command line tool for manipulating spherical/360 metadata in MP4 files. This can be used to either validate the 360 metadata in a tagged spherical video or insert the metadata into an existing file.

## Building Standalone Application
Install pyinstaller

    pip install pyinstaller

Run pyinstaller on the gui.py file

    pyinstall --clean --windowed --name "Spherical Metadata Injector" gui.py

If on Mac OS X modify Spherical\ Metadata\ Injector.app/Contents/info.plist and
add "High Resolution Capable" key with value "YES".

## Install command line application
Download the script <a href="https://github.com/google/spatial-media/archive/master.zip" download>master.zip</a> and install <a href="https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.7/">Python 2.7</a>.


## Usage
    python spatialmedia -h
Prints help.


     <input> [additional input]
For each file specified, prints any spherical metadata contained within.


    python spatialmedia -i [--stereo=(top-bottom|left-right)] <input> <output>
Reads &lt;input&gt; and adds spherical / 360 metadata saving the altered copy to &lt;output&gt;. Input and output cannot be the same file. Options top-bottom and left-right flags set the appropriate values for the StereoMode tag.

Commit message:

Update README, add PyInstaller .spec, fix command line tool.

spatialmedia/README.md, after:

# Spatial Media Metadata Injector
A tool for manipulating spatial media ([spherical video](../docs/spherical-video-rfc.md) and [spatial audio](../docs/spatial-audio-rfc.md)) metadata in MP4 and MOV files. It can be used to inject spatial media metadata into a file or validate the spatial media metadata already in a file.

## Usage
[Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/) must be used to run the tool. From within the directory above `spatialmedia`:

#### Help
    python spatialmedia -h
Prints help and usage information.

#### Examine 
    python spatialmedia <files...>
For each file specified, prints spatial media metadata contained in the file.

#### Inject
    python spatialmedia -i [--stereo=(none|top-bottom|left-right)] [--spatial-audio] <input> <output>
Saves a version of `<input>` injected with spatial media metadata to `<output>`. `<input>` and `<output>` must not be the same file.

##### --stereo
Selects the left/right eye frame layout; see the `StereoMode` element in the [Spherical Video RFC](../docs/spherical-video-rfc.md) for more information.

Options:
- `none`: Mono frame layout.
- `top-bottom`: Top half contains the left eye and bottom half contains the right eye.
- `left-right`: Left half contains the left eye and right half contains the right eye.

##### --spatial-audio
Enables injection of spatial audio metadata. If enabled, the file must contain a 4-channel first-order ambisonics audio track with ACN channel ordering and SN3D normalization; see the [Spatial Audio RFC](../docs/spatial-audio-rfc.md) for more information.

## Building standalone GUI application
Install [PyInstaller](http://pythonhosted.org/PyInstaller/), then run the following: 

    pyinstaller spatial_media_metadata_injector.spec
